AI Assistant docs for 8.9 (#3549)
elastic/security-docs: docs/assistant/security-assistant.asciidoc

A connector for OpenAI or Azure OpenAI Service powers the AI Assistant.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/assistant.gif[Animation of the AI Assistant chat window,90%]

[IMPORTANT]
====
This is an initial release of the Elastic AI Assistant, designed to enhance your analysis with smart dialogues. Its capabilities are still developing. Users should exercise caution as the quality of its responses might vary. Your insights and feedback will help us improve this feature. Always cross-verify AI-generated advice for accuracy.
====

.Requirements
[sidebar]
--
* The Elastic AI Assistant and Generative AI connector are available in {stack} version 8.8.1 and later.

* This feature requires an https://www.elastic.co/pricing[Enterprise subscription].

* You must have an account with a third-party generative AI provider, which the AI Assistant uses to generate responses. Supported providers are OpenAI and Azure OpenAI Service.
--

[discrete]
[[data-information]]
== Your data and the AI Assistant

> Elastic does not store or examine prompts sent to or results generated by the AI Assistant, or use this data for model training. This includes anything you send the model, such as alert or event data, detection rule configurations, queries, and prompts. However, any data you provide to AI Assistant will be processed by the third-party provider that you chose when setting up the Generative AI connector as part of the assistant setup.

Author: I think a single sentence works better to convey everything in a single thought, but agree there's a lot going on.
```suggestion
Elastic does not store or examine prompts or results used by the AI Assistant, or use this data for model training. This includes anything you send the model, such as alert or event data, detection rule configurations, queries, and prompts. However, any data you provide to AI Assistant will be processed by the third-party provider that you chose when setting up the Generative AI connector as part of the assistant setup.
```

> Elastic does not store or examine prompts sent to or results generated by the AI Assistant, or use this data for model training. This includes anything you send the model, such as alert or event data, detection rule configurations, queries, and prompts. However, any data you provide to AI Assistant will be processed by the third-party provider that you chose when setting up the Generative AI connector as part of the assistant setup.

Reviewer: There is a lot of info here, but I'm OK w/ this iteration ^ - you could remove the `that` from `provider that you chose...` (nit).

> Elastic does not control the third-party tools, and assumes no responsibility or liability for their content, operation, or use, nor for any loss or damage that may arise from your using such tools. Please exercise caution when using AI tools with personal, sensitive, or confidential information. Any data you submit may be used by the provider for AI training or other purposes. There is no guarantee that the provider will keep any information you provide secure or confidential. You should familiarize yourself with the privacy practices and terms of use of any generative AI tools prior to use.

Author: Same as above about contractions

> NOTE: Elastic can automatically anonymize event data that you provide to AI Assistant as context. To learn more, refer to <<configure-ai-assistant, Configure AI Assistant>>.

Author: There's no specific guideline from Product; I've seen it both ways.

> NOTE: Elastic can automatically anonymize event data that you provide to AI Assistant as context. To learn more, refer to <<configure-ai-assistant, Configure AI Assistant>>.

Reviewer: If I were to guess, they may be treating it as a proper feature name. So I guess we can nix the article for now, but should get clarity ASAP. Let's make sure it's consistent across until we need to change it.

[discrete]
[[set-up-ai-assistant]]
== Set up the AI Assistant

You must complete these steps before you can use the AI Assistant:

. Create an API key with your AI provider to authenticate requests from the AI Assistant. You'll use this in the next step. Refer to the provider's documentation for generating API keys:
+
* https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference[OpenAI]
* https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cognitive-services/openai/reference[Azure OpenAI Service]

> . Create a {kibana-ref}/gen-ai-action-type.html[Generative AI connector] using the AI provider's API key and URL to configure communication between {elastic-sec} and the provider. You can do this in {kib} from *Stack Management* -> *Connectors*, or from within the AI Assistant.

Author: Maybe "authenticate" is closer, but IMO this sentence isn't really going into that kind of detail — it's just saying that the connector allows two systems to communicate with each other.

> . Create a {kibana-ref}/gen-ai-action-type.html[Generative AI connector] using the AI provider's API key and URL to configure communication between {elastic-sec} and the provider. You can do this in {kib} from *Stack Management* -> *Connectors*, or from within the AI Assistant.

Reviewer: I would go with `authenticate` here.

[discrete]
[[start-chatting]]
== Start chatting

To open the AI Assistant, press *Cmd + ;* (or *Ctrl + ;* on Windows) from anywhere in the {security-app}. This opens the *Welcome* chat interface, where you can ask general questions about {elastic-sec}.

> You can also chat with the AI Assistant from several particular pages in {elastic-sec} where you can easily send context-specific data and prompts to AI Assistant.

Reviewer 2: The first instance of "AI Assistant" uses an article, so I added an article before the second instance too.

```suggestion
You can also chat with the AI Assistant from several particular pages in {elastic-sec} where you can easily send context-specific data and prompts to the AI Assistant.
```

[discrete]
[[interact-with-assistant]]
== Interact with the AI Assistant

Use these features to adjust and act on your conversations with the AI Assistant:

* Select a _system prompt_ at the beginning of a conversation to establish how detailed and technical you want the AI Assistant's answers to be.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/system-prompt.gif[The system prompt drop-down menu,90%]
+

> System prompts provide context to the model, informing its response. To create a custom system prompt, open the system prompts dropdown menu and click *+ Add new system prompt...*.

Reviewer 2: I couldn't find the *+ Add new system prompt...* label, but I did see *+ Add quick prompt...* in the BC5:
<img width="1231" alt="prompt" src="https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/assets/79124755/bec68afe-e4e2-413b-b090-f4c3b469a49c">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
System prompts provide context to the model, informing its response. To create a custom system prompt, open the system prompts drop-down menu and click *+ Add new system prompt...*.
```

Author: > I couldn't find the _+ Add new system prompt..._ label, but I did see _+ Add quick prompt..._ in the BC5

**Add new system prompt** is _inside_ the system prompt drop-down. The instructions do say to "open the system prompts drop-down" to click this, but maybe it could be clearer? The animated GIF also shows this, but slightly cuts off the **Add new system prompt** option at the bottom.

> * Select a _quick prompt_ at the bottom of the chat window to get help writing a prompt for a specific purpose, such as summarizing an alert or converting a query from a legacy SIEM to {elastic-sec}.

Reviewer 2: Might be helpful to let users know that they'll need to click the **Submit message** button after selecting a prompt. I know it's a little hand-holdy, but it could be a small detail that new users miss.

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/quick-prompts.png[Quick prompts highlighted below a conversation,90%]
+

> Quick prompt availability varies based on context — for example, the Alert summarization quick prompt appears when you open the AI Assistant while viewing an alert. To customize existing quick prompts and create new ones, click *Add Quick prompt*.

Reviewer 2: Suggesting this styling since we bold interactive UI elements.
 
```suggestion
Quick prompt availability varies based on context — for example, the **Alert summarization** quick prompt appears when you open the AI Assistant while viewing an alert. To customize existing quick prompts and create new ones, click *Add Quick prompt*.
```

* Use these buttons to perform actions in the conversation history and prompt entry area:

** *Add note to timeline* (image:images/icon-add-note.png[Add note icon,16,16]): Add the selected text to your currently active Timeline as a note.
** *Add to existing case* (image:images/icon-add-to-case.png[Add to case icon,19,16]): Add a comment to an existing case using the selected text.
** *Copy to clipboard* (image:images/icon-copy.png[Copy to clipboard icon,17,18]): Copy the text to clipboard to paste elsewhere. Also helpful for resubmitting a previous prompt.
** *Add to timeline* (image:images/icon-add-to-timeline.png[Copy to clipboard icon,17,18]): Add a filter or query to Timeline using the text. This button appears for particular queries in the AI Assistant's responses.
+
TIP: Be sure to specify which language you'd like the AI Assistant to use when writing a query. For example: "Can you generate an Event Query Language query to find four failed logins followed by a successful login?"
** *Clear chat* (image:images/icon-clear-red.png[Red X icon,16,16]): Delete the conversation history and start a new chat.

[discrete]
[[configure-ai-assistant]]

> == Configure the AI Assistant

Reviewer: Just pointing this out for consistency if you decide to use or omit the `the` article since we have it both ways throughout.

The *Settings* menu (image:images/icon-settings.png[Settings icon,17,17]) allows you to configure default conversations, quick prompts, system prompts, and data anonymization.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/assistant-settings-menu.png[The AI Assistant's settings menu, open to the Conversations tab]

> The settings menu has four tabs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The *Settings* menu has four tabs:
```

> * **Conversations:** When you open the AI Assistant from certain pages, such as Timeline or Alerts, it defaults to the relevant conversation type. Choose the default system prompt for each conversation type, as well as the connector and model (if applicable).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Conversations:** When you open the AI Assistant from certain pages, such as Timeline or Alerts, it defaults to the relevant conversation type. Choose the default system prompt for each conversation type, the connector, and model (if applicable).
```

> * **Conversations:** When you open the AI Assistant from certain pages, such as Timeline or Alerts, it defaults to the relevant conversation type. Choose the system prompt which appears by default for each conversation type, as well as the connector and model (if applicable).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Conversations:** When you open the AI Assistant from certain pages, such as Timeline or Alerts, it defaults to the relevant conversation type. Choose the default system prompt for each conversation type, as well as the connector and model (if applicable).
```

> * **Quick Prompts:** Modify existing quick prompts or create new ones. To create a new quick prompt, type a unique name in the *Name* field, then press enter. Under *Prompt*, enter or update the quick prompt's text. Under *Contexts*, select where the quick prompt should appear.

Reviewer: Even though this is a keyboard function, I think we should bold anything we're pressing or selecting.
```suggestion
* **Quick Prompts:** Modify existing quick prompts or create new ones. To create a new quick prompt, type a unique name in the *Name* field, then press *enter*. Under *Prompt*, enter or update the quick prompt's text. Under *Contexts*, select where the quick prompt should appear.
```

> * **Quick Prompts:** Modify existing quick prompts or create new ones. To create a new quick prompt, type a new name in the *Name* field, then press enter. Under *Prompt*, enter or update the quick prompt's text. Under *Contexts*, select where the quick prompt should appear.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Quick Prompts:** Modify existing quick prompts or create new ones. To create a new quick prompt, type a unique name in the *Name* field, then press enter. Under *Prompt*, enter or update the quick prompt's text. Under *Contexts*, select where the quick prompt should appear.
```

> * **System Prompts:** Edit existing system prompts or create new ones. To create a new system prompt, type a unique name in the *Name* field, then press enter. Under *Prompt*, enter or update the system prompt's text. Under *Contexts*, select where the system prompt should appear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **System Prompts:** Edit existing system prompts or create new ones. To create a new system prompt, type a unique name in the *Name* field, then press *enter*. Under *Prompt*, enter or update the system prompt's text. Under *Contexts*, select where the system prompt should appear.
```

> * **System Prompts:** Edit existing system prompts or create new ones. To create a new system prompt, type a new name in the *Name* field, then press enter. Under *Prompt*, enter or update the system prompt's text. Under *Contexts*, select where the system prompt should appear.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **System Prompts:** Edit existing system prompts or create new ones. To create a new system prompt, type a unique name in the *Name* field, then press enter. Under *Prompt*, enter or update the system prompt's text. Under *Contexts*, select where the system prompt should appear.
```

+

> NOTE: To delete a custom prompt, open the *Name* dropdown menu, hover over the prompt you wish to delete, and click the *X* that appears to its right. You cannot delete the default prompts.

Reviewer 2: Small nit, but idk if we need to be super specific about where the X appears. 

```suggestion
NOTE: To delete a custom prompt, open the *Name* drop-down menu, hover over the prompt you want to delete, and click the *X* that appears. You cannot delete the default prompts.
```

> * **Anonymization:** When you provide an event to the AI Assistant as context, you can select which fields to include as plaintext, which to obfuscate, and which to skip sending altogether. The anonymization settings tab allows you to define default data anonymization behavior — you can update these settings for individual events when you include them in the chat.

Reviewer 2: Possible revision for streamlining:

```suggestion
* **Anonymization:** When you provide an event to the AI Assistant as context, you can select fields to include as plaintext, to obfuscate, and to not send. The **Anonymization** tab allows you to define default data anonymization behavior. You can update these settings for individual events when you include them in the chat.
```

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/assistant-anonymization-menu.png[The AI Assistant's settings menu, open to the Anonymization tab]
+

> The fields on this list are among those most likely to provide relevant context to the AI Assistant. Fields with *Allowed* on are included. *Allowed* fields with *Anonymized* on are included, but with their values obfuscated.

Reviewer 2: Might be helpful to align the description with certain elements in the UI. 

```suggestion
The fields on this list are among those most likely to provide relevant context to the AI Assistant. Fields with *Allowed* toggled on are included. *Allowed* fields with *Anonymized* set to `Yes` are included, but with their values obfuscated.
```

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/add-alert-context.gif[A video that shows an alert being added as context to an AI Assistant chat message]
+
When you include a particular event as context, you can use a similar interface to adjust anonymization behavior. Be sure the anonymization behavior meets your specifications before sending a message with the event attached.

> The *Show anonymized* toggle controls whether you see the obfuscated or plaintext versions of fields you sent to the AI Assistant. It does not affect what gets obfuscated — that's determined by the anonymization settings. It also does not affect how event fields appear _before_ being sent to the AI Assistant. Instead, it controls how fields that were already sent, and obfuscated, appear to you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The *Show anonymized* toggle controls whether you see the obfuscated or plaintext versions of the fields you sent to the AI Assistant. It doesn't control what gets obfuscated — that's determined by the anonymization settings. It also doesn't affect how event fields appear _before_ being sent to the AI Assistant. Instead, it controls how fields that were already sent and obfuscated appear to you.
```
